What is Object-Oriented Programming?
Answer: Object-Oriented Programming (OOP) is a programming paradigm based on the concept of "objects," which can contain data and methods. It emphasizes the use of classes and objects and promotes reusability, modularity, and encapsulation.

What are the main principles of OOP?
Answer: The main principles of OOP are Encapsulation, Inheritance, Polymorphism, and Abstraction.

Can you explain the concept of a class and an object?
Answer: A class is a blueprint for creating objects. It defines a type of object according to the data it holds and the operations that can be performed on it. An object is an instance of a class, representing a specific entity that has attributes and behaviors defined by its class.

What is the difference between a class and an object?
Answer: A class is a template or blueprint from which objects are created. It defines properties and methods. An object is an instance of a class, with actual values and functionalities.

Classes and Objects

How do you define a class in C++?
Answer: A class in C++ is defined using the class keyword followed by the class name and a body enclosed in curly braces.

class ClassName {
private:
    int data;
public:
    void display() {
        std::cout << data << std::endl;
    }
};

How do you create an object of a class in C++?
Answer: An object of a class is created by declaring it like a regular variable.

ClassName obj;

What is a constructor?
Answer: A constructor is a special member function of a class that initializes objects of the class. It has the same name as the class and no return type.

What is a destructor?
Answer: A destructor is a special member function of a class that is called when an object is destroyed. It has the same name as the class, preceded by a tilde (~), and no return type.

Can you explain the purpose of constructors and destructors?
Answer: Constructors are used to initialize objects when they are created, setting initial values or allocating resources. Destructors are used to clean up resources when an object is destroyed.

What is the difference between a default constructor and a parameterized constructor?
Answer: A default constructor takes no arguments and initializes objects with default values. A parameterized constructor takes arguments and allows the initialization of objects with specific values.

Access Modifiers

What are access specifiers?
Answer: Access specifiers define the accessibility of class members. In C++, the main access specifiers are private, protected, and public.

What is the difference between private, public, and protected access specifiers?
Answer:
private: Members are accessible only within the class.
public: Members are accessible from outside the class.
protected: Members are accessible within the class and by derived class instances.

Member Functions and Data Members

What are member functions?
Answer: Member functions are functions defined within a class that operate on the objects of that class.

What are data members?
Answer: Data members are variables defined within a class that hold the data attributes of the objects.

How do you define a member function inside a class?
Answer: A member function is defined within the class body.

class ClassName {
public:
    void functionName() {
        // Function implementation
    }
};

How do you define a member function outside a class?
Answer: A member function is defined outside the class body using the scope resolution operator ::.

void ClassName::functionName() {
    // Function implementation
}

What is a static member in a class?
Answer: A static member belongs to the class rather than any object instance. It is shared by all objects of the class and is declared using the static keyword.

Inheritance

What is inheritance in OOP?
Answer: Inheritance is a feature of OOP that allows a class to inherit properties and methods from another class. The class that inherits is called the derived class, and the class from which it inherits is called the base class.

What are the types of inheritance supported in C++?
Answer: The types of inheritance in C++ are:
Single inheritance
Multiple inheritance
Multilevel inheritance
Hierarchical inheritance
Hybrid inheritance

How do you implement inheritance in C++?
Answer: Inheritance is implemented using the colon : followed by the access specifier and the base class name.

class DerivedClass : public BaseClass {
    // Derived class members
};

What is the purpose of the protected access specifier in inheritance?
Answer: The protected access specifier allows members to be accessible in derived classes while remaining inaccessible from outside the class.

What is the difference between public, private, and protected inheritance?
Answer:
public inheritance: Public and protected members of the base class become public and protected members of the derived class.
private inheritance: Public and protected members of the base class become private members of the derived class.
protected inheritance: Public and protected members of the base class become protected members of the derived class.

Polymorphism

What is polymorphism?
Answer: Polymorphism is the ability of different objects to be accessed through the same interface, allowing one interface to be used for a general class of actions. It can be achieved through function overloading, operator overloading, and inheritance.

What is the difference between compile-time and run-time polymorphism?
Answer:
Compile-time polymorphism: Achieved through function overloading and operator overloading. It is resolved at compile time.
Run-time polymorphism: Achieved through inheritance and virtual functions. It is resolved at runtime.

How is polymorphism achieved in C++?
Answer: Polymorphism in C++ is achieved through function overloading, operator overloading, and inheritance using virtual functions.

What is a virtual function?
Answer: A virtual function is a member function declared in the base class using the virtual keyword and is overridden in the derived class. It allows for dynamic linkage (run-time polymorphism).

What is a pure virtual function?
Answer: A pure virtual function is a virtual function with no implementation in the base class. It is declared by assigning 0 to the function signature and makes the class abstract.

class BaseClass {
public:
    virtual void functionName() = 0;
};

Encapsulation and Abstraction

What is encapsulation?
Answer: Encapsulation is the concept of bundling data and methods that operate on the data within a single unit, a class. It restricts direct access to some of the object's components, which can prevent the accidental modification of data.

How is encapsulation implemented in C++?
Answer: Encapsulation is implemented using classes where data members are kept private, and public getter and setter functions are provided to access and modify the data.

What is abstraction?
Answer: Abstraction is the concept of hiding the complex implementation details of a system and showing only the necessary features. It focuses on what an object does rather than how it does it.

How do you achieve abstraction in C++?
Answer: Abstraction in C++ is achieved using abstract classes (classes with pure virtual functions) and interfaces.

Miscellaneous

What is the this pointer in C++?
Answer: The this pointer is an implicit pointer available inside non-static member functions of a class. It points to the object for which the member function is called.

What is operator overloading?
Answer: Operator overloading allows you to define or change the behavior of operators for user-defined types. It enables operators to work with class objects.

What is the use of the friend keyword in C++?
Answer: The friend keyword allows a function or another class to access private and protected members of the class in which it is declared as a friend.

Can you explain the concept of a copy constructor?
Answer: A copy constructor is a special constructor used to create a new object as a copy of an existing object. It is defined with a reference to an object of the same class.

ClassName(const ClassName &obj) {
    // Copy constructor implementation
}

What is the difference between deep copy and shallow copy?
Answer:
Shallow copy: Copies all member values from one object to another, including pointers, which can lead to issues if the pointer points to a shared resource.
Deep copy: Creates a copy of dynamically allocated memory pointed to by the pointers, ensuring each object has its own independent copy of the data.

What are getter and setter functions, and why are they used?
Answer: Getter and setter functions are used to access and modify private data members of a class. They provide controlled access and can include validation logic.
